# Digit Recognition using Neural Network
This is based on the Machine learning course (exercise 3 & 4) by Professor Andrew Ng of Stanford University. Neural Networks, which mimics the neurons of a brain, is used to learn the dataset and predict the outcome of an image. The recognition of handwritten image requires the model to be trained with a training set to learn what each image represents. The model is then tested to see how accurately it predicts the new images which it never encountered during the training. The input to the program is pixel values of a digital image. The neural network consists of 3 layers: input layer, hidden layer and the output layer. The hidden layer consists of nodes which are characterized by the weight parameters. These nodes are called activation units. The hidden units correspond roughly to detectors that look for strokes and other patterns in the input. Once the parameters are tuned according to the various inputs and corrected by using back propagation method, the network is able to recognize various images of single digits. This is an example of supervised learning problem.

### Method to run the program
  Run the script: main_script.py

A set of training set has been provided in the course mentioned above which was used for training the Neural Network. This is basically a subset of the MNIST handwritten digit dataset. This is the input to the program. The output of the program will be an image of a digit from the training set one at a time and the predicted value (the digit that the model predicted). In addition, it will provide an accuracy rate.
